README.md, before:

et - the extraterrestrial botnet
===

### What is it?
`et` is a dumb client to an IRC command-and-control server.

When activated, it "phones home" and awaits instructions from members of an IRC channel.

It can be instructed to retrieve system information and execute commands, among other things.

### Compilation

#### On *nix systems (Linux, BSD, OS X):
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/woodruffw/et && cd et
$ make nix # compiles et in ./bin
```

#### On Windows:
Building on Windows requries `make` and `gcc`, both of which can be obtained through the [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/) project.

Download the tarball, extract it somewhere, and run `mingw32-make` inside of that directory in CMD.exe. The `et.exe` binary will be left in "bin".


*IMPORTANT*: Do not actually run the resulting `et` binary, as it *WILL* connect you to the default server and open your computer to attack.

### Usage
Controlling the `et` bots from the IRC server is very simple.

When each bot connects, it sends out a channel-wide message of the format:
```
et#######: et####### phoning home
```

From that point on, the bot is ready to receive commands. All commands are executed by `/bin/sh -c` expect for quit and info, which are defined to kill the bot and report `uname(3)` output respectively.

Some examples, all from the IRC prompt:
```
et#######: et####### phoning home
/msg et####### info
/msg et####### pwd
/msg et####### quit
```

Currently, output from system commands is limited to approximately 512 characters. 

### Proof of Concept
The original PoC Python script can be found under `src/poc/et.py`. Like the actual version, it does work and *WILL* expose your machine.

### Theoretical Limits
Because the IRC protocol limits nicks to 9 characters, only so many `et`s can operate within a single channel.

By default, the first two characters of an `et`'s nick will always be 'et,' meaning that at most 10 million `et`s can exist within a channel.
Furthermore, because I got lazy with the Windows version, the ID on Windows machines can only be in the range [0, (32768 << 8)] for a total number of 8,388,609 possible IDs on Windows.
Of course, because the trailing numbers are pseudorandom and not sequential, the actual point of collision is likely to be much lower than 10 million (or 8,388,609 for that matter).
On the other hand, `et` can be configured to "phone home" to other servers and channels, making the limit less relevant in practice.

### Status
`et` is currently a work in progress and is not fully complete.

Many of its features are currently missing.

Commit message:

added basic auth mode for nix, updated readme

README.md, after:

et - the extraterrestrial botnet
===

### What is it?
`et` is a dumb client to an IRC command-and-control server.

When activated, it "phones home" and awaits instructions from members of an IRC channel.

It can be instructed to retrieve system information and execute commands, among other things.

### Compilation

#### On *nix systems (Linux, BSD, OS X):
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/woodruffw/et && cd et
$ make nix # compiles et in ./bin
```

#### On Windows:
Building on Windows requries `make` and `gcc`, both of which can be obtained through the [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/) project.

Download the tarball, extract it somewhere, and run `mingw32-make` inside of that directory in CMD.exe. The `et.exe` binary will be left in "bin".


*IMPORTANT*: Do not actually run the resulting `et` binary, as it *WILL* connect you to the default server and open your computer to attack.

### Configuration

Many of `et`'s features can be configured in the *cnc_info.h* file under *./src*.

For example, to change the IRC server `et` reports to, set `IRC_SERVER` to a server of your choice.

Any changes made require recompilation.

### Usage
Controlling the `et` bots from the IRC server is very simple.

When each bot connects, it sends out a channel-wide message of the format:
```
et#######: et####### phoning home
```

From that point on, the bot is ready to receive commands. There are four built-in commands:
* `auth <password>` - Requests authorization to control the bot. If the password matches `IRC_AUTH` in *cnc_info.h*, authorization is granted.
* `deauth` - Deauthorizes control of the bot unconditionally. Once deauthorized, the bot may not execute any command but `auth`.
* `info` - Outputs a digest of system information. Supplied by `uname(3)` on Unix and Linux and `GetVersionEx` on Windows.
* `quit` - Disconnects the bot from the IRC server. Unless scheduled otherwise on the system, the bot will never reconnect.

Aside from these four commands, all other commands passed to an `et` are passed directly to `popen(3)` (`_popen()` on Windows).

By default `deauth`, `info`, `quit`, and all other commands are restricted until the bot is authorized with `auth`.

Some examples, all from the IRC prompt:
```
et#######: et####### phoning home
/msg et####### auth et-phone-home
et#######: Successfully authorized. et####### listening.
/msg et####### info
et#######: some information
/msg et####### pwd
et#######: the current working directory
/msg et####### quit
*et####### has quit ()
```

Currently, output from system commands is limited to approximately 512 characters. 

### Proof of Concept
The original PoC Python script can be found under *./src/poc/et.py*. Like the actual version, it does work and *WILL* expose your machine.

### Theoretical Limits
Because the IRC protocol limits nicks to 9 characters, only so many `et`s can operate within a single channel.

By default, the first two characters of an `et`'s nick will always be 'et,' meaning that at most 10 million `et`s can exist within a channel.
Furthermore, because I got lazy with the Windows version, the ID on Windows machines can only be in the range [0, (32768 << 8)] for a total number of 8,388,609 possible IDs on Windows.
Of course, because the trailing numbers are pseudorandom and not sequential, the actual point of collision is likely to be much lower than 10 million (or 8,388,609 for that matter).
On the other hand, `et` can be configured to "phone home" to other servers and channels, making the limit less relevant in practice.

### Status
`et` is currently a work in progress and is not fully complete.

Many of its features are currently missing.
